To finish the,
the UI part before actually start writing
code that executes in the background.
See how that works.
I mentioned that there is
a new recent use case for
background execution that's media playing.
Okay, so let's see how that works and
see it in action in our project.
In the case that your web app is playing
audio or video, or it seems like it's
playing audio or video, okay, there
are special cases for background playing.
We have two API's picture in picture for
video.
So in that case you have like some
kind of a secondary canvas, okay.
So you have maybe the user is
minimizing the browser completely but
you still have a picture and picture
floating window on your operating system.
So you have like a canvas where
you can still render content,
that canvas is not DOM based,
so you cannot render HTML,
you can just render videos, okay?
So it's a video element,
but it can be live video,
and because it can be live video,
you can inject that with images or
with whatever you want.
Okay I will show you examples
of that in a minute,
the other API is called the media
session API and this is for metadata.
So why you're playing video or
audio in the background you
can send to the OS metadata
about what you're playing, but
that metadata is bidirectional or
that action is bidirectional.
You are sending data from
your web app to the OS,
but also you can listen for
actions from the OS.
Like the play, the pulse,
actions, seek, next, previous.
So every OS will render its own UI.
And then when the user clicks
on one of those actions,
your web app will get
executed in the background.
And it's not just the web app.
Today, when you are executing
background audio or
video, you will be connected
not just to the OS.
For example here you have Android,
here you have Windows, but
also just smart watches.
So if I'm playing some background
audio from a web app from my iPhone,
I will see the information
in my Apple watch.
And the action from the Apple Watch
will trigger JavaScript events
in your background web app.
Nothing makes sense?
And that's not happening in
the service worker's scope,
that's happening in the window scope,
in the global scope, okay?
And it's not just your smart watch,
also Android where supports that.
It includes your car.
If you are with Android Auto or
CarPlay for iOS it will also work.
So, the actions from the car
even from the wheels
buttons will trigger
JavaScript your phone and
that magically works.
So this is a media session API.
So it's navigator.mediaSession.metadata.
Where you set the current metadata
by the largest album on an image,
and then you can set different
action handlers per action.
Examples of the second part,
something like this,
you set an action handle for play,
post, stop, seek backward and forward.
That's typically when you have +10,
-10 seconds, so it will execute this.
And seek to is when the user is actually
moving the finger, is dragging, okay?
The thumb around the slider.
Previoustrack, nexttrack,
skipad, in the case you
have another and
you let the users keep the ad on YouTube.
You can do that.
And there is like a second version of this
API that is currently available on most
browsers and you will understand why.
There is adding more actions for
video callings,
so if you're in meet Zoom or
Teams meeting.
Now you can send that meeting for
example to picture and picture and
through this API, you will be able to
hang up, to mute your microphone, okay.
And your transcript will get executed and
function with this API, okay?
Make sense?
So when you are doing this and
you're sending audio or video,
if the user gets out of your website,
minimizing the browser, or going to
another tab, you are in the background and
you will continue executing.
It's not going to dispose your tab.